# MemAlloc
MemAlloc is a simple memory allocation library that provides a simple interface for allocating and freeing memory. It is written in C and is designed to be used in embedded systems where memory allocation is a critical task. The library is designed to be small and efficient, with a focus on simplicity and ease of use.

Implements an arena-based memory allocator that uses free-list scheme, and different allocation schemes (next-fit, best-fit, worst-fit) which can be configured to be used based on the set environment variable. Note that non-arena based allocation is also supported, and can be used easily.

A comprehensive test suite is provided to ensure the correctness of the library. The testing is based on traces, generated by a python script, against which the performance of the allocator is tested.

## Usage
In order to compile the project, run the following commands:
```bash
$ make
```
By default, it will produce a `release` build. A `debug` build can be obtained by running:
```bash
$ make BUILD_DEFALUT=debug
```
The build produces `build/libmm_malloc.a` which can be linked with the user code. The user code should include the header file `mm_lib.h` to use the library.

In order to run the tests, generate the traces by running the following command:
```bash
$ python3 test/traces/trace_gen.py
```
It uses the `test/traces/trace_config.json` file to generate the traces. The traces are generated in the `test/traces` directory. The traces can be run against the allocator by running the following command:
```bash
$ make driver
```
The driver program will run the traces against the allocator, check for correctness and print the statistics.